Improve pytest plugin documentation (#65631)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/develop/test/pytest.rst

Reviewer: you may use up to 100 characters per line. This is the case towards the beginning of this document but it looks like your changes are 80.

Author: Okay, I didn't know that the limit is 100 characters. So, I changed it back to 100 characters.

   ├─── src/
   │    └─── main.c
   ├─── CMakeList.txt
   ├─── prj.conf
   └─── testcase.yaml

An example of a pytest test is given at
:zephyr_file:`samples/subsys/testsuite/pytest/shell/pytest/test_shell.py`.
Basing on configuration from the ``testcase.yaml`` file, Twister builds
application from ``src`` and then if .yaml file contains ``harness: pytest``
entry, Twister calls pytest in separate subprocess. Exemplary configuration
.yaml file can looks like:

.. code-block:: yaml

   tests:
      some.foo.test:
         harness: pytest
         tags: foo

By default, called pytest tries to look for tests in ``pytest`` directory,
located next to a directory with binary sources. A keyword ``pytest_root``
placed under ``harness_config`` section in .yaml file can be used to point to
other files, directories or subtests (more info :ref:`here <pytest_root>`).

Pytest scans the given locations looking for tests, following its default
`discovery rules <https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/explanation/goodpractices.html#conventions-for-python-test-discovery>`_.

Passing extra arguments
=======================

There are two ways for passing extra arguments to the called pytest subprocess:

> 1. From .yaml file, using ``pytest_args`` placed under ``harness_config``

Author: Changed

How to create a pytest test
***************************

Exemplary folder which contains pytest test, application source code and Twister
configuration .yaml file can looks like below:

.. code-block:: none

   test_foo/
   ├─── pytest/
   │    └─── test_foo.py
   ├─── src/
   │    └─── main.c
   ├─── CMakeList.txt
   ├─── prj.conf
   └─── testcase.yaml

An example of a pytest test is given at
:zephyr_file:`samples/subsys/testsuite/pytest/shell/pytest/test_shell.py`.

> Basing on configuration from the ``testcase.yaml`` file, Twister builds
> application from ``src`` and then if .yaml file contains ``harness: pytest``
> entry, Twister calls pytest in separate subprocess. Exemplary configuration
> .yaml file can looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the configuration provided in the ``testcase.yaml`` file, Twister builds
the application from ``src`` and then, if the .yaml file contains a ``harness: pytest`` entry,
it calls pytest in a separate subprocess. A sample configuration file may look like this:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

   tests:
      some.foo.test:
         harness: pytest
         tags: foo

> By default, called pytest tries to look for tests in ``pytest`` directory,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, pytest tries to look for tests in a ``pytest`` directory
```

      dut.readlines_until('Hello world')

shell
=====

Provide an `Shell <shell_class_>`_ class object with methods used to interact
with shell application. It calls ``wait_for_promt`` method, to not start
scenario until DUT is ready. Note that it uses ``dut`` fixture, so ``dut`` can

> be skipped when ``shell`` is used. Scope of this fixture is determined by the

Author: Done. I changed "The shell fixture inherits from..." to "The shell fixture calls...", because I think that this better describes what is done from technical point of view.

      dut.readlines_until('Hello world')

shell
=====

> Provide an `Shell <shell_class_>`_ class object with methods used to interact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide a `Shell <shell_class_>`_ class object with methods used to interact
```

   .. automethod:: write

   .. automethod:: disconnect

   .. automethod:: close

.. _shell_class:

Shell
=====

.. autoclass:: twister_harness.Shell

   .. automethod:: exec_command

   .. automethod:: wait_for_prompt

Exemplary pytest tests in Zephyr project
****************************************

1. Shell demo - :zephyr_file:`samples/subsys/testsuite/pytest/shell`
#. MCUmgr tests - :zephyr_file:`tests/boot/with_mcumgr`
#. LwM2M tests - :zephyr_file:`tests/net/lib/lwm2m/interop`
#. GDB stub test - :zephyr_file:`tests/subsys/debug/gdbstub`

FAQ
***

How to flash/run application only once per pytest session?
==========================================================

   ``dut`` is a fixture responsible for flashing/running application. By default, its scope is set
   as ``function``. This can be changed by adding to .yaml file ``pytest_dut_scope`` keyword placed
   under ``harness_config`` section:

   .. code-block:: yaml

      harness: pytest
      harness_config:
         pytest_dut_scope: session

   More info can be found :ref:`here <pytest_dut_scope>`.

How to run only one particular test from a python file?
=======================================================

>    This can be achieved in several ways. In .yaml file it can be added ``pytest_root`` keyword

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This can be achieved in several ways. In .yaml file it can be added using a ``pytest_root`` entry
```

      mcumgr.reset_device()
      # continue test scenario, check version etc.

Classes
*******

DeviceAdapter
=============

.. autoclass:: twister_harness.DeviceAdapter

   .. automethod:: launch

   .. automethod:: connect

   .. automethod:: readline

   .. automethod:: readlines

   .. automethod:: readlines_until

   .. automethod:: write

   .. automethod:: disconnect

   .. automethod:: close

.. _shell_class:

Shell
=====

.. autoclass:: twister_harness.Shell

   .. automethod:: exec_command

   .. automethod:: wait_for_prompt

Exemplary pytest tests in Zephyr project
****************************************

> 1. Shell demo - :zephyr_file:`samples/subsys/testsuite/pytest/shell`

Author: Added

      mcumgr.reset_device()
      # continue test scenario, check version etc.

Classes
*******

DeviceAdapter
=============

.. autoclass:: twister_harness.DeviceAdapter

   .. automethod:: launch

   .. automethod:: connect

   .. automethod:: readline

   .. automethod:: readlines

   .. automethod:: readlines_until

   .. automethod:: write

   .. automethod:: disconnect

   .. automethod:: close

.. _shell_class:

Shell
=====

.. autoclass:: twister_harness.Shell

   .. automethod:: exec_command

   .. automethod:: wait_for_prompt

Exemplary pytest tests in Zephyr project
****************************************

1. Shell demo - :zephyr_file:`samples/subsys/testsuite/pytest/shell`
#. MCUmgr tests - :zephyr_file:`tests/boot/with_mcumgr`
#. LwM2M tests - :zephyr_file:`tests/net/lib/lwm2m/interop`
#. GDB stub test - :zephyr_file:`tests/subsys/debug/gdbstub`

FAQ
***

> 1. **How to flash/run application only once per pytest session?**

Reviewer: I don't think numbering is necessary + it's prob better to actually keep the hierarchy using a proper heading
```suggestion
How to flash/run application only once per pytest session?
==========================================================
```

   ``dut`` is a fixture responsible for flashing/running application. By
   default, its scope is set as ``function``. This can be changed by adding to
   .yaml file ``pytest_dut_scope`` keyword placed under ``harness_config``
   section:

   .. code-block:: yaml

      harness: pytest
      harness_config:
         pytest_dut_scope: session

>    more info can be find :ref:`here <pytest_dut_scope>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   More info can be found :ref:`here <pytest_dut_scope>`.
```
